# Analytics-POC

## Data and its importance 

**Variable** - is a characteristic of any entity being studies that is capable of taking on different values

**Measurements** - is when a standard process is used to assign numbers to particular attributes or characterstic of a variable

**Data** - Data is defined as facts or figures, or information that's stored in or used by a computer. Datas are generated by humans, machines and human-machine combine.

## How data adds value to the business
  
  The data after getting from various sources assume that it is a store in the form of data warehouse. So from the data warehouse the data can be used for development of a data product. Eg. Recomendation engine
  
## Why data is important?

  - The data helps in making better decisions, 
  - data helps in solve problem by finding the reason for underperformance.
  - The data helps one to evaluate the performance. 
  - Data helps to improve process
  - Data heps one to understand consumer and market

# Data Analytics definition

  - Data analytics is the scientific process of transforming data into insights for making better decisions.
  - It is the use of the data information technology, statistical analysis, quantitative methods and mathematical or computer-based models to help managers gain improved insight about their business operations and make better, fact-based decisions. - _Professor James Evans_

## Importance 
 -  For determining the credit risk
 -  For developing new medicines, especially in healthcare
 -  Finding more efficient ways to deliver product and services 
 -  Preventing fraud
 -  Uncovering the cyber threats
 -  Retaining most valuable customers

# Data Analysis definiton 
  It is the process of examining, transforming and arranging raw data in a specific way to generate useful information from it. Data analysis allows for the
evaluation of data through analytical and logical reasoning to lead to some sort of outcome or conclusion in some context. Data analysis is a multi-faceted process that involves a number of steps approaches and diverse techniques. 
 
## Analytics = Analysis ?

  - Analysis is something about what has happened in the past. So we will explain why that has happened? We will explain how it has happened? 
  - Analytics is studying about what will happen in future and with the help of analytics. We can predict explore possible potential future events.
  - Therefore Analysis ≠ Analytics

## Classification of data analytics
  - Descriptive analytics
  - Diagnostic analytics
  - Predictive analytics
  - Prescriptive analytics

### Descriptive analytics
  - Descriptive analytics is the conventional form of business intelligence or data analysis which answers the questions **what happened?**
  - It seeks to provide the depiction or summary view of facts and figures in an understandable format. 
  - These either inform or prepare data for further analysis. 
  - Descriptive analysis or we can say another way in statistics can summarize raw data and convert it into your form that can be easily understood by humans. 
  - They can describe in detail about an even that has occurred in the past.
  - common example of descriptive analytics are company reports that simply provide the historic review like: data queries, reports, descriptive statistics, data visualization and data dashboard 
  
### Diagnostic analytics
  - Diagnostic analytics is a form of advanced analytics which examines data or content to answer the question **why did it happen?**
  - So the diagnostic analytical tools aid and analyst to dig deeper into an issue so that, they can arrive at the source of the problem
  - In a structured business environment tools for both descriptive and diagnostic analytics go parallel.
  - Technique used are data discovery, data mining, and correlations
 
### Predictive analytics
  - Predictive analytics helps to forecast trends based on the current events
  - Predicting the probability of an event happening in future are estimating accurate time it will happen can all be determined with the help of predictive analytical models. 
  - Many different but co-dependent variables are analysed to predict a trend in this type of analysis.
  - Technique used ate linear regression, time series analysis and forecasting and data mining.

### Prescriptive analytics
  - A set of techniques to indicate the best course of action. 
  - It tells what decision to make to optimize the outcome. 
  - The goal of prescriptive analytics is to enable quality improvements, service enhancements, cost reductions and increasing productivity
  - Tools used is optimozation model, simulation and decision analysis

  

